the terminal or the comand line ;it is where you can enter the comands by write it on the keyboerd

 (is)   

 is the first thing you type then we wrote the command line arguments 

it is must to have aspace betwwen the command and the first command 

most commands produce output

then at the last it will be ready to enter another command 

---------

 there are many ways to enter the terminal 

BUT IF YOU ARE IN WINDOWS YOU WILL HAVE TO AN SSH CLIENT 

-------

THE SHELL BASH 

the shell is part of operating system that defines how to terminal and the most common one is bash 

if you want to know which shell you are using then you can use acommand ECHO  which is used to display the massages

----

navigation 

it is to learn the basic and the work efficincy in linux 

the first thing is PWD which tell you your current or  present  work  

is 

make aplain listing of our current location and it is strongerand  

and there are many thing to do with it 

---

the squre brackets  mean that those items are optional 

-----

path :to get aparticular file or dictionary on the system 

---

absolute and relative paths 

the file system under linux is hierarchical structure 

the top of it called root 

we can use slash to indicate to it 

----

tilda :shortcut your dictionary 

dot :refrence of your dictionary  and it is additionally not neccessary

dotdot:refrence to the parent dictionary (listing of the root dictionary )pwdPrint Working Directory - ie. Where are we currently.lsList the contents of a directory.cdChange Directories - ie. move to another directory.

-----

Relative pathA file or directory location relative to where we currently are in the file system.Absolute pathA file or directory location in relation to the root of the file system.

-------

file.exe - an executable file, or program.
file.txt - a plain text file.
file.png, file.gif, file.jpg - an imag
----

a path is a means to get to a particular location in the system and that location is a file.

 there are two options s and S both of which do different things.

---

fileobtain information about what type of file a file or directory is.ls -aList the contents of a directory, including hidden files.

--

 

File:  text file/image something that contains data
Folder :  location, place where I can put something 
Ls : that content of location I am in now 
mkdir :  make a directory 
cd : for change directory 
ex : cd 102-d17
touch : create file 
ex : touch index.html 
Cd .. Will back to containing folder 
 

 
